UniqueToken.md: API documentation for UniqueToken.md (#179)
kokkos/kokkos-core-wiki: docs/source/API/core/parallel-dispatch/UniqueToken.rst

``UniqueToken``
===============

Header File: ``Kokkos_Core.hpp``

Description
------------

``UniqueToken`` is a portable way to acquire a unique ID for a thread (``thread-id`` is not portable across execution environments).  The unique ID is scoped by the ``UniqueTokenScope`` template parameter (defaults to ``Instance``, but can be set to ``Global``).

Interface
---------

.. code-block:: cpp 

    template <class ExecutionSpace = DefaultExecutionSpace, UniqueTokenScope = UniqueTokenScope::Instance> UniqueToken

Parameters
-----------

*  ``ExecutionSpace``:  See `Execution Spaces <../execution_spaces.html>`_

*  ``UniqueTokenScope``:  defaults to ``Instance``, and every instance is independent of another.  In contrast, ``Global`` uses one set of unique IDs for all instances.

.. note::

>    In a parallel region, before the main computation, a pool of ``UniqueToken`` (integer) ID is generated.  A generated ID is released following iteration (see ``void release(size_t idx)`` below).

Reviewer: I am not sure if we need the note when we have the warning below

Author: agreed

Reviewer: I would prefer if we kept the warning and ditched the note. The warning was very explicit about what users have to adhere to. The note makes it sound optional in my opinion

``UniqueToken``
===============

Header File: ``Kokkos_Core.hpp``

Description
------------

``UniqueToken`` is a portable way to acquire a unique ID for a thread (``thread-id`` is not portable across execution environments).  The unique ID is scoped by the ``UniqueTokenScope`` template parameter (defaults to ``Instance``, but can be set to ``Global``).

Interface
---------

.. code-block:: cpp 

    template <class ExecutionSpace = DefaultExecutionSpace, UniqueTokenScope = UniqueTokenScope::Instance> UniqueToken

Parameters
-----------

*  ``ExecutionSpace``:  See `Execution Spaces <../execution_spaces.html>`_

*  ``UniqueTokenScope``:  defaults to ``Instance``, and every instance is independent of another.  In contrast, ``Global`` uses one set of unique IDs for all instances.

.. note::

>    In a parallel region, before the main computation, a pool of ``UniqueToken`` (integer) ID is generated, and each ID is released following iteration.

Reviewer 2: > each ID is released following iteration.

I don't quite understand what this means.

Reviewer: I guess she meant to say that the token is released at the end of the iteration

Author: I reworked for clarity.

.. warning::

>    ``UniqueToken <ExecutionSpace> token`` *can* be called inside a parallel region, *but* must be released at the end of *each* iteration.

Reviewer 2: Should we be saying "work item" instead of "iteration"?

Author: Either formulation is fine :  " ... each iterate" or  " ... each work item"

Constructors
-------------

  .. code-block:: cpp

     UniqueToken(size_type max_size, ExecutionSpace execution_space = ExecutionSpace())
     // Scope is instance
  
  .. code-block:: cpp
     
     UniqueToken(size_type max_size, ExecutionSpace execution_space = ExecutionSpace()) requires(TokenScope == Global); 

>      // Scope is global

Reviewer 2: I am not following what is the difference between the two.
Should that be interpreted as, regardless of whether TokenScope is instance or global, the constructor takes an integer argument and optionally an execution space trailing argument that defaults to the default exec space instance?

Reviewer: I think are right, the constructor that takes a `max_size` will instantiate `UniqueToken<ExecutionSpace,UniqueTokenScope::Instance>`.
The one with only the `ExecutionSpace` as argument does not restrict the scope.

Author: yes -- the main distinction is scope (instance or global).

>   .. code-block:: cpp
> 
>      UniqueToken(size_type max_size, ExecutionSpace execution_space = ExecutionSpace())
>      // Scope is instance
>   
>   .. code-block:: cpp
>      
>      UniqueToken(size_type max_size, ExecutionSpace execution_space = ExecutionSpace()) requires(TokenScope == Global); 
>      // Scope is global

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .. code-block:: cpp

     UniqueToken(size_type max_size, ExecutionSpace execution_space = ExecutionSpace{})
     // Scope is instance
     
     UniqueToken(ExecutionSpace execution_space = ExecutionSpace{})
     // Scope can be instance or global
```

Public Member Functions
------------------------

>  .. code-block:: cpp
>     
>     UniqueToken(size_type max_size, ExecutionSpace execution_space=ExecutionSpace())
>      

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
presumably a copy pasta error

 .. code-block:: cpp
    

>     size_type size()

Reviewer 2: Did we forget to define `size_type`?

>     // Returns the size of the token pool    

Reviewer 2: There is a dedicated syntax for return
```suggestion
   :returns: the size of the token pool    
```

Author: `:return:` doesn't work (as a [Sphinx directive](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/domains/cpp.html)) with `.. code-block:: cpp` or `.. cpp:function:: `

Reviewer 2: https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/domains/cpp.html#info-field-lists

Author: Here,  `code-block:: cpp`  (vs. `cpp:function::`) is being used

``UniqueToken``
===============

.. role:: cppkokkos(code)
    :language: cppkokkos

Header File: ``Kokkos_Core.hpp``

Description
------------

``UniqueToken`` is a portable way to acquire a unique ID for calling a thread (``thread-id`` is not portable execution environments).  ``UniqueToken`` is thus analogous to ``thread-id``, and has a ``UniqueTokenScope`` template parameter (default: ``Instance``, but can be ``Global``).    

Interface
---------

.. cppkokkos:class:: template <class ExecutionSpace, UniqueTokenScope :: Global> UniqueToken

Parameters
-----------

*  ``ExecutionSpace``:  See `Execution Spaces <../execution_spaces.html>`_

.. note::
   In a parallel region, before the main computation, a pool of ``UniqueToken`` (integer) Id is generated, and each Id is released following iteration.

.. warning::
   ``UniqueToken <ExecutionSpace> token`` *can* be called inside a parallel region, *but* must be released at the end of *each* iteration.

*  ``UniqueTokenScope``:  defaults to ``Instance``, but ``Global`` can be employed when thread awareness is needed for more than one ``ExecutionSpace`` instance, as in the case of submitting concurrent kernels to CUDA streams.

> Constructors
> -------------
>   .. cppkokkos:function:: UniqueToken(size_t max_size, ExecutionSpace execution_space, UniqueTokenScope :: Global)
> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Constructors
-------------
  .. cppkokkos:function:: UniqueToken(ExecutionSpace execution_space = ExecutionSpace())

Additionally for ``UniqueTokenScope==Instance``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  .. cppkokkos:function:: UniqueToken(size_t max_size, ExecutionSpace execution_space=ExecutionSpace())
     Sets an upper bound to the number of tokens. Requires ``max_size <= execution_space.concurrency()``
     
Token Interface
---------------
 .. cppkokkos:function:: size_type size()
     Returns the size of the token pool
     
 .. cppkokkos:function:: size_type acquire()
     Returns the token for the executing tread
     
 .. warning::
     Acquired tokens *must* be released at the end of the parallel region in which they were acquired.

 .. cppkokkos:function:: void release(size_type idx)
     Releases the passed token
```

@crtrott can you verify that it is ``max_size <= execution_space.concurrency()`` ... the comment in https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/blob/d4af7c8302ecb4280c6215497bb2e39f9ed83c3f/core/src/Kokkos_UniqueToken.hpp#L78 would suggest otherwise, but the following lines suggest the opposite. But I might be wrong here :-D

Examples
---------

.. code-block:: cpp

  // UniqueToken on an Execution Space Instance
  UniqueToken < ExecutionSpace > token ;
  int number_of_uniqe_ids = token.size ();
  RandomGenPool pool ( number_of_unique_ids , seed );

  parallel_for ("L", N, KOKKOS_LAMBDA ( int i) {

>     int id = token . acquire ();
>     RandomGen gen = pool (id );
>     // Computation Body
>     token . release (id );

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    auto id = token.acquire ();
    RandomGen gen = pool (id );
    // Computation Body
    token.release (id );
```

    });

  // Submitting concurrent kernels to (e.g., CUDA) streams

>   void foo () {
>   UniqueToken < ExecSpace , UniqueTokenScope :: Global > token_foo ;
>   parallel_for ("L", RangePolicy < ExecSpace >( stream1 ,0,N), functor_a ( token_foo ));}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  void foo () {
      UniqueToken < ExecSpace , UniqueTokenScope :: Global > token_foo ;
      parallel_for ("L", RangePolicy < ExecSpace >( stream1 ,0,N), functor_a ( token_foo ));
      }
```

>   void bar () {
>   UniqueToken < ExecSpace , UniqueTokenScope :: Global > token_bar ;
>   parallel_for ("L", RangePolicy < ExecSpace >( stream2 ,0,N), functor_b ( token_bar ));}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  void bar () {
      UniqueToken < ExecSpace , UniqueTokenScope :: Global > token_bar ;
      parallel_for ("L", RangePolicy < ExecSpace >( stream2 ,0,N), functor_b ( token_bar ));
      }
```
